of the many iconic viral videos to come
out of the early 2000s Internet few have
aged as well as the Afro ninja video
yeah the Afro ninja takes a pretty nasty
spill here but God is hip not a funny
clip I mean the way he commits to the
nunchuck choreography after nearly
knocking himself out gets me every time
the Afro ninja video has accrued
millions of views over the years and
it's easily one of the most well known
fail style videos that being said few
people are aware of the actual story
behind this clip there's more to it than
you might think it may be hard to
believe but the Afro ninja wasn't just
some random schmuck in over his head he
was actually an award-winning
professional martial artist and stuntman
and his failure to perform in this video
was a freak accident of swords that
ended up being leaked onto the internet
without his knowledge today I'm gonna
tell you the story of the Afro ninja
what were the circumstances that led up
to this video clip and what happened to
the Afro ninja after the clip went viral
but first this video is sponsored by
rage shadow legends that's right Brad
shadow legends the dark fantasy RPG that
is single-handedly financing the career
of virtually every 100 K Plus subscribed
YouTube channel is now sponsoring your
boy rain is playable on both mobile and
PC and best of all it's free collect the
cast of over 300 champions and battle it
out an epic pvp and PVE scenarios with
all these champions to choose from it
was difficult for me to decide which was
my favorite but I'd had to say my
favorite one is this ochre guy because
the first time I saw his name I read it
his fury stroker which was funny to me
but hey that's enough middle school
humor for one ad read I've got a big
major raid announcement to give you all
raids highly anticipated battle past
season 1 is now live this is where you
can win unprecedented rewards including
free energy refills gems upgraded
artifact sets and new epic and legendary
champions by completing legend
berry challenges what was that recording
with me reading that so what are you
waiting for it click the links below in
the description box to download raid and
if you're a new player you'll get a
hundred K silver and a free champion
that champion being hex Weaver she find
though you'll also get extra rewards in
your inbox during the first 30 days of
playing so click the special links below
to get started and without any further
ado let's get on to the afro ninja story
the story of the Afro ninja begins with
professional martial artist and stuntman
Mark hiks hiks was a Taekwondo master
and stuntman who had been working stunt
roles in Hollywood since the late 1980s
though his career really started gaining
traction in the 90s after landing roles
in wild wild west and rush hour his
momentum would continue on into the new
millennium with his first big post y2k
geek being rush hour 2 where he resumed
his role as Chris Tucker's stunt double
in fact his performance can be seen
during the climax of the movie
as you can see mark Hicks was no amateur
and as the 2000s progressed he found
himself becoming one of the hottest
stuntmen in Hollywood but in the coming
years mark Hicks found his career in
danger after an unexpected blunder
threatened to ruin his reputation the
trouble begins in 2004 Hicks had been
training in Hong Kong when he was
informed by a colleague back in the
states about an open audition for a
vague Kung Fu character role in a LeBron
James Nike commercial the commercial
itself was to promote LeBrons chamber of
fear Air Force One colorway Hicks was
already intrigued by the proposal but he
knew that he had to go after learning
that his childhood martial artist icon
Jim Kelly was going to be in the
commercial for those unaware Jim Kelly
was the first black martial artist film
star known as the black samurai he has
some insane accolades under his belt
hell he co-starred alongside Bruce Lee
and Enter the Dragon feeling as if this
was an opportunity he couldn't pass up
Hicks got on a plane back to the States
and prepared for this audition the
audition itself was loose in its
requirements only asking that
participants showcase some sort of
martial arts ability because of Hick's
reputation in Hollywood he was already
somewhat of a favorite to secure this
role and the incompetence displayed by
the majority of auditionees only
bolstered his odds Hicks had prepared a
short routine involving a somersault and
some nunchuck work for this particular
audition only practicing a few hours
beforehand when it was finally time for
Hicks to showcase his skills he walked
onto the set a bit jet-lagged from his
flight but also with the confidence of a
seasoned martial arts master with
decades of experience that being said I
doubt anybody in the room expected what
happens next
fortunately Hicks didn't suffer any
serious injury from the fall and after
resting for a few minutes he was given
the opportunity to perform the stunt
again which he executed successfully on
this attempt even though he was able to
land at the second attempt this whole
experience was extremely embarrassing
for Hicks
despite his catastrophic failure his
performance was leagues above anything
else witnessed that day and Hicks was
ultimately given the role months later
he would appear in the Nike commercial
alongside LeBron and his childhood hero
Jim Kelly
[Music]
Hicks was happy to have been a part of
this commercial but he still felt shamed
from the botched audition performance
months prior he was very much a
perfectionist and was embarrassed that
the small film crew saw his mistake and
with that said later that year his shame
was about to be multiplied exponentially
turns out somebody leaked the audition
tapes from the Nike commercial and mark
Hicks embarrassing fail was leaked onto
the Internet
thus the Afro ninja was born eventually
the Afro ninja video became so big that
even television picked up on it
[Applause]
tries to save it like pull it off
mark Hicks was mortified telling
Business Insider I have no idea who
leaked it to the web I wanted to do some
serious bodily harm to the person who
leaked it it takes a long time to gain
respect and Trust in the stunt business
I felt like this video would destroy all
that I had worked for by making me look
like a goof mark Hicks fear is certainly
understandable here but the thing is
this video didn't really hurt his career
in the long run the time following this
video spread was one of the busiest and
gig filled eras of his career while the
whole ordeal was certainly embarrassing
for him he would eventually learn to
embrace it people will not remember me
for winning three stunt Awards or the
projects I've done over the last 15 to
16 years they'll remember me for Afro
ninja so I figured who knows maybe I can
generate a living from it in an effort
to profit off the meme in 2009 Hicks
directed a feature-length film based off
of his experience going viral called
afro ninja destiny now when it comes to
the actual quality of this film it's not
good I watched a good 30 minutes of this
film in the process of making this video
and it's pretty awful really one of
those films where it's so bad that it's
actually entertaining in a weird way
myself
well myself there's a lot of mail that
needs to be sorted now
not today Howie if you do a bit of
searching around you can find this movie
free online if you're inclined to watch
it now I think it goes without saying
that this movie went straight to DVD and
it was a complete commercial flop in
fact Hicks actually lost a lot of money
making it as he self produced the entire
film despite mark Hicks effort he was
never truly able to convert the Afro
ninja Miam into dollar signs but at the
end of the day it wasn't ruining his
career and he had his stuntman work to
fall back on so he wasn't like many of
these viral sensations where they try to
profit off the meme and fall flat on
their face after the meme dies off he
had a back-up plan ultimately the Afro
ninja video proved to be a semi harmless
blemish on his professional career a
blemish that has entertained millions of
people to add to that
Hicks blunder was actually indirectly
responsible for tosh point-o becoming a
show Afro ninja was featured on the very
first episode of tosh when Daniel was
pitching his idea for the show to Comedy
Central mark Hicks appearance was key to
establishing a proof of concept for the
web Redemption series and as history
goes tosh point-o would become one of
the most popular shows on Comedy Central
okay the moment of truth I've got your
numchucks
thank you is there anything I can do for
you uh no I'm good I'm far enough away
now you're fine okay I'm nervous no no
don't be hey buddy I've seen them when
this when this doesn't go so well do you
want to say a prayer take a knee hungry
all is good all is good
[Music]
everyone deserves a second chance
it was beautiful God Oh beautiful
you
in 2009 a black man with a fake afro
help me introduce to the world the web
Redemption you know him his afro ninja
but to me he will always be known as my
first welcome stunt man extraordinaire
mark Hicks Paul seemed extremely
unnecessary mark Daniel have a seat good
to see you again man stunts I want you
to know that my far and away you were my
favorite web Redemption that I've ever
done
well they say something about the first
is always special
does that make you proud to be a part of
TV history yeah I guess so would you say
being on this show was the highlight of
your career no no well mark you
definitely made my life a lot better I
honestly wouldn't sold the show without
you so sincere thank you it's my
pleasure man good seeing you take care
all right excuse me stunts in recent
years Hicks is still working in
Hollywood as a stunt man and his latest
big movie appearance was in Avengers in
game where apparently he played one of
the wakandans though I'm unsure exactly
where in the movie he shows up but it
very may well be in the final battle
with Thanos and if that's the case
that's pretty kick-ass
today the Afro ninja video has over 18
and a half million views on YouTube
Hicks estimates if you combine reuploads
and views on other sites his failed
stunt has been seen more than 80 million
times online fortunately this
embarrassing moment that disseminated
across the Internet didn't ruin his
career in the way he feared it would he
learned pretty quickly to embrace the
meme and ended up relatively unscathed
from all of this and that's the story of
the Afro ninja slash mark Hicks let me
know what you guys thought about this
video down below in the comments section
and let me know who or what you want me
to talk about next
I want to give a major shout out to my
patrons I appreciate you guys wavy web
surf out peace
[Music]